Add RepoWise announcement blog post (#203)
UC-OSPO-Network/ucospo.net: content/posts/repowise-announcement/index.md

---
title: "Introducing RepoWise: A Conversational AI Tool for OSS Repositories"
date: 2025-11-25T10:00:00-07:00
draft: false
summary: "RepoWise enables natural-language dialogue with Open-Source Software repositories, transforming how developers, maintainers, and researchers explore governance, contributions, and community health."
tags: ["sustainability", "conversational-ai", "LLM", "repository-mining", "RAG"]
authors:
  ["Sankalp Kashyap", "Arjun Ashok", "Nafiz Imtiaz Khan", "Vladimir Filkov"]
featuredImage: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RepoWise/RepoWise-website/main/static/images/repowise-answer.png"
---

Understanding an open source project shouldn't require navigating scattered documentation, querying multiple APIs, or deciphering abstract metrics. Yet for newcomers and maintainers alike, answering simple questions like _"How do I start contributing?"_, _"Who are the most active contributors?"_, or _"How do I report a bug?"_ often demands hours of manual exploration across README files, CONTRIBUTING guides, issue trackers, and commit histories.

> We are happy to present **[RepoWise](https://repowise.netlify.app)** with a mission to make interacting with open source repositories more human, transparent, and sustainable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DECAL (Davis Excellent/Eclectic/Extreme Computational Analytics Lab) is happy to present **[RepoWise](https://repowise.netlify.app)** with a mission to make interacting with open source repositories more human, transparent, and sustainable.
```
